I get questions I got a question from a
patreon supporter if you want to right
now you can click on the link below this
video you can support the existence of
this channel for one dollar a month less
than a cup of less than the cost of a
cup of coffee people only say that when
they're ripping you off you notice that
you know you can save starving orphans
in Africa for less than the cost of a
cup of coffee but it is true these days
here in Victoria you'd be lucky to get a
cup of coffee for two dollars and 50
cents
I think the cheapest cup of coffee in
Victoria is a dollar 70 now but I
digress anyway I got a question from one
of my patreon supporters her name is
Noel and okay I guess I might as well
read this question in full but for me I
mean this touches on so many of the
issues that I deal with in this channel
and issues I'm now dealing with in real
life as I try to get back into real life
activism here in Canada before I was
living in China so my involvement with
activism was limited largely limited to
youtube so noel writes quote what is
your view on this comment i've received
recently before getting blocked on
facebook by some vegan demanding that
everyone defend someone else based on
their alleged view that gays slash
lesbians slash transgenders should keep
their sex issues' separate from veganism
in rallies okay so rallies I'm just
noting this is not about telling gay
people to live in the closet this is
this is an argument for whether or not a
vegan rally can be expressly vegan and
not at the same time a gay rights rally
right so I continue the quote quote I
was told if veganism isn't
intersectional it's not veganism close
quote
so the comments are no well the person
who has me this question doesn't say in
her opinion issues such as child welfare
I am an SDSU meaning amnesty for illegal
immigrants in human politics are
separate issues and do you not have
veganism as part of their ideology so
why should vegans include some or all of
these issues alright
I remember a video I saw in Chinese from
a vegan activist in Taiwan and you know
she said I think this is very true of
Taiwan she said the number one response
she got is being challenged on vegan
politics was to ask why would you devote
time and attention to this when there
are these other human issues there were
human realm problems to be addressed in
politics in Taiwan especially in Chinese
they use the word human in a way we
don't really in English so often it's
partly because of actually there were
form of Buddhism on the island at that
one it became very popular to talk about
human or realm of Buddhism which is say
Buddhism directed towards worldly
Affairs real problems in the real world
as opposed to supernatural problems so
why aren't you directing your attention
towards human problems and this
activists in Taiwan her response was to
say the reality is the number of human
problems to be addressed is infinite if
we always give priority to the human
problems we will never run out of human
problems to address and so therefore
what you're really saying in making such
an argument for the the paramount
importance of the problems human have is
that the animal problems will never be
addressed
they will never be the top priority so
you can imagine in our lives just within
the last 10 15 years which I hope
everyone watching this video can
remember last night of Engineers you
know what not having to dig back into
ancient history or whole century of
history if somebody had said to you in
the year 2001 well we'll deal with
veganism and animal rights and ecology
after we deal with the consequences of
the terrorist attack in New York City in
September of 2001 after we deal with
that then we'll deal with veganism
animal rights in ecology somebody might
have said a few years later after we
deal with the war in Iraq then we'll
deal with vegan animal rights in ecology
if somebody says after you know the
civil war in Syria after Libya after the
Arab Spring
this is not even mentioning I mean there
are numerous numerous you know crises
short-term conflicts I could I could
list here that of course really do
completely dominate you know people's
lives now not saying with any cynicism I
mean there are people in Syria in the
middle of the civil war who are who are
so much living in a war zone that they
can't possibly think about these issues
right so you know it's not that there's
no truth whatsoever to what some of
these people are saying it's not as if
they're cynically manipulating the
situation to support their agenda
however their agenda is flawed and it's
flawed for more reasons than one one
reason as already mentioned is if you
give the priority to so-called human
issues in this way then we will never
address these issues because we are
never gonna run out of crises that
relate to human rights etc and the
second is that it is completely false to
say that veganism is an animal issue
it's it's it is this is human politics
I mean ecology is entirely in the sphere
of human politics we cannot leave it up
to the animals to preserve the forests
or write ecological policy ultimately
human beings with guns and taxes draw
lines on a map and decide where there's
a National Park and where the trees are
going to be cut down as part of the
forestry industry where the farm starts
and where the farm stops which farms can
put how much pollution into the rivers
that's a hundred percent a human issue
for humans to question for humans to
find answers to for humans to resolve
now of course the problems with human
diet and human health these are also
human issues but really what we're
talking about what we are projecting as
animal rights is an entirely human
concept an entirely human affair it's
one way human beings explain to each
other a problem human beings have to
deal with um I hate to say it but look
guys whether you're talking about
domesticated animals that are living
inside people's condominiums or you're
talking about stray dogs living wild on
the streets of
city either way it's a human problem
we're talking about to a very limited
extent are we ever talking about the
dogs as such right so it's flawed in all
these ways in war that there's there's
no way I mean look
veganism is ineluctably and inextricably
part of ecology and ecology is
inextricably and ineluctably a part of
veganism we cannot disentangle two we
can't separate the two and ecology is
absolutely the domain of human beings
making making tough decisions right and
of course the ethics the ethical
argument it's entirely on the human side
of the equation and so too is the health
side these are the three big foundations
for veganism ecology ethics and and
health all right so with all this admin
said is it effective to try to
disentangle in this particular case
vegan activism from gay rights activism
or vice-versa and some other instance
would it or would it not be effective
for vegans try to co-opt ongoing gay
rights movements or for gay rights
movements try to co-op dean ism the
real-world answer is it depends
my girlfriend and I were just in Seattle
where the gay rights thing is so massive
it's in every window that it really is
possible that vegan politics can make
progress can get ahead can reach an
important market by basically trying to
to co-opt to infiltrate to participate
in gay events and you can imagine very
well how that might work you know
there's a gay festival or a gay parade
and you decide to have pay money and
have a vegan booth do vegan outreach at
the gay event that could be totally
successful right now there were other
hard questions that come up with with
co-option and with intersectionality
what if there's a vent
that's for typical conservation-minded
people who may be involved in hunting
ducks but they are sincerely interested
in conservation and ecology can you
that kind of event that includes people
who hunt ducks and people who hunt moose
and may even include people selling
hamburgers but it's about ecology and
conservation can you rent a table there
can you co-op that can you participate
that and can you come to some kind of
some kind of positive outcome from doing
so and you know in both cases my honest
answer is here maybe maybe it could be
really positive for someone in Seattle
to make common cause with gay rights
groups but I mean you know I would say
that in the same sense and with some of
the same warnings as maybe it's possible
to really make common cause and really
cooperate with a conservationist group
that's interested in conserving a
particular forest or I mean you know
different ideological groups that maybe
from their perspective totally unrelated
to veganism but where you have to make
the case hey veganism is something for
you also my fundamental principle here
it's a double-edged sword if you believe
that veganism is for everybody then you
believe that it's for right-wing people
who own a truck and a rifle and go duck
hunting - right if you believe the vegan
message is for everybody it means it's
for him also right the guy in in the
truck if you believe that veganism is
for everybody then you believe it's for
you know this intersectional left-wing
political fringe or members of the
intersectional gay rights movement also
it's for everybody the problem is
exactly the finitude of your time how
can you take the message to those people
how can you effectively use your finite
time and money and leverage to move
forward with the vegan movement or
indeed to create your own vegan
organization your own vegan business
your own vegan food service whatever
it's it's gonna be and those decisions
ultimately I think are in a word
strategic thanks for your time thanks
for your question - well if anyone else
wants to ask me a question of a video
made in response to it $1 a month on
patreon hit me up